IHis piercing pince-nez. Some dim frieze Hands point to a dim frieze, in the dark night. In the book of his music the corners have straightened: Which owe their presence to our sleeping hands. The ox-blood from the hands which play For fire for warmth for hands for growth Is there room in the room that you room in? Upon his structured tomb: Still they mean something. For the dance And the architecture. Weave among incidents May be portentous to him We are the sleeping fragments of his sky, Wind giving presence to fragments. 
IIDear Margie, hello. It is 5:15 a.m. dear Berrigan. He died Back to books. I read It’s 8:30 p.m. in New York and I’ve been running around all day old come-all-ye’s streel into the streets. Yes, it is now, How Much Longer Shall I Be Able To Inhabit The Divine and the day is bright gray turning green feminine marvelous and tough watching the sun come up over the Navy Yard to write scotch-tape body in a notebook had 17 and 1/2 milligrams Dear Margie, hello. It is 5:15 a.m. 
fucked til 7 now she’s late to work and I’m 18 so why are my hands shaking I should know better 
III 
Stronger than alcohol, more great than song, deep in whose reeds great elephants decay; I, an island, sail, and my shores toss on a fragrant evening, fraught with sadness bristling hate. It’s true, I weep too much. Dawns break slow kisses on the eyelids of the sea, what other men sometimes have thought they’ve seen. And since then I’ve been bathing in the poem lifting her shadowy flowers up for me, and hurled by hurricanes to a birdless place the waving flags, nor pass by prison ships O let me burst, and I be lost at sea! and fall on my knees then, womanly. 
IVLord, it is time. Summer was very great. All sweetly spoke to her of me about your feet, so delicate, and yet double E!! And high upon the Brooklyn Bridge alone, to breathe an old woman slop oatmeal, loveliness that longs for butterfly! There is no pad as you lope across the trails and bosky dells I often think sweet and sour pork” shoe repair, and scary. In cities, I strain to gather my absurdities He buckled on his gun, the one 
Poised like Nijinsky at every hand, my critic and when I stand and clank it gives me shoes 
VSquawking a gala occasion, forgetting, and “Hawkaaaaaaaaaa!” Once I went scouting As stars are, like nightmares, a crucifix. Why can’t I read French? I don’t know why can’t you? Rather the matter of growth My babies parade waving their innocent flags Huddled on the structured steps Flinging currents into pouring streams The “jeunes filles” so rare. He wanted to know the names He liked boys, never had a mother Meanwhile, terrific misnomers went concocted, ayearning, 
ayearning The Pure No Nonsense And all day: Perceval! Perceval! 
VI 
The bulbs burn phosphorescent, white Your hair moves slightly, Tenseness, but strength, outward And the green rug nestled against the furnace Dust had covered all the tacks, the hammer . . . optimism for the jump . . . The taste of such delicate thoughts Never bring the dawn. 
The bulbs burn, phosphorescent, white, Melting the billowing snow with wine: Could the mind turn jade? everything Turning in this light, to stones, Ash, bark like cork, a fading dust, To cover the tracks of “The Hammer.” 
Poem in the Traditional Manner 
Whenever Richard Gallup is dissevered, Fathers and teachers, and daemons down under the sea, Audenesque Epithalamiums! She Sends her driver home and she stays with me. 
Match-Game etcetera! Bootleggers Barrel-assing chevrolets grow bold. I summon To myself sad silent thoughts, Opulent, sinister, and cold. 
Shall it be male or female in the tub? And grawk go under, and grackle disappear, And high upon the Brooklyn Bridge alone, An ugly ogre masturbates by ear: 
Of my darling, my darling, my pipe and my slippers, Something there is is benzedrine in bed: And so, so Asiatic, Richard Gallup Goes home, and gets his gat, and plugs his dad. 
Poem in the Modern Manner 
She comes as in a dream with west wind eggs, bringing Huitzilopochtli hot possets: Snakeskins! But I am young, just old enough 
to breathe, an old woman, slop oatmeal, lemongrass, dewlarks, full draught of, fall thud. 
Lady of the May, thou art fair, Lady, thou art truly fair! Children, When they see your face, Sing in idiom of disgrace. 
Pale like an ancient scarf, she is unadorned, bouncing a red rubber ball in the veins. The singer sleeps in Cos. Strange juxtaposed the phantom sings: Bring me red demented rooms, warm and delicate words! Swollen as if new-out-of-bed Huitzilopochtli goes his dithyrambic way, quick-shot, resuscitate, all roar! 
From a Secret Journal 
My babies parade waving their innocent flags an unpublished philosopher, a man who must column after column down colonnade of rust in my paintings, for they are present I am wary of the mulctings of the pink promenade, went in the other direction to Tulsa, glistering, bristling, cozening whatever disguises S of Christmas John Wayne will clown with Dreams, aspirations of presence! Innocence gleaned, annealed! The world in its mysteries are explained, and the struggles of babies congeal. A hard core is formed. “I wanted to be a cowboy.” Doughboy will do. Romance of it all was overwhelming daylight of itself dissolving and of course it rained. 
Real Life 
1. The Fool He eats of the fruits of the great Speckle Bird, pissing in the grass! Is it possible He is incomplete, bringing you Ginger Ale Of the interminably frolicsome gushing summer showers? You were a Campfire Girl, Only a part-time mother and father; I Was large, stern, acrid, and undissuadable! Ah, Bernie, we wear complete The indexed Webster Unabridged Dictionary. And lunch is not lacking, ants and clover On the grass. To think of you alone Suffering the poem of these states! Oh Lord, it is bosky, giggling happy here, And you, and me, the juice, at last extinct! 
2. The Fiend Red-faced and romping in the wind I too am reading the technical journals, but Keeping Christmas-safe each city block With tail-pin. My angels are losing patience, Never win. Except at night. Then I would like a silken thread Tied round the solid blooming winter. Trees stand stark-naked guarding bridal paths; The cooling wind keeps blowing, and There is a faint chance in geometric boxes! It doesn’t matter, though, to show he is Your champion. Days are nursed on science fiction And you tremble at the books upon the earth As my strength and I walk out and look for you. 
Penn Station 
On the green a white boy goes And he walks. Three ciphers and a faint fakir No One Two Three Four Today I thought about all those radio waves Winds flip down the dark path of breath Passage the treasure Gomangani I Forget bring the green boy white ways And the wind goes there Keats was a baiter of bears Who died of lust (You lie! You lie!) As so we all must in the green jungle Under a sky of burnt umber we bumble to The mien florist’s to buy green nosegays For the fey Saint’s parade Today We may read about all those radio waves 
XIII 
Mountains of twine and Teeth braced against it Before gray walls. Feet walk Released by night (which is not to imply Death) under the murk spell Racing down the blue lugubrious rainway To the big promise of emptiness In air we get our feet wet. . . . a big rock Caresses cloud bellies He finds he cannot fake Wed to wakefulness, night which is not death Fuscous with murderous dampness But helpless, as blue roses are helpless. Rivers of annoyance undermine the arrangements. 
XIV 
We remove a hand . . . In a roomful of smoky man names burnished dull black And labelled “blue” the din drifted in . . . Someone said “Blake-blues” and someone else “pill-head” Meaning bloodhounds. Someone shovelled in some Cotton-field money brave free beer and finally “Negroes!” They talked . . . He thought of overshoes looked like mother Made him Combed his hair Put away your hair. Books shall speak of us When we are gone, like soft, dark scarves in gay April. Let them discard loves in the Spring search! We await a grass hand. 
XV 
In Joe Brainard’s collage its white arrow He is not in it, the hungry dead doctor. Of Marilyn Monroe, her white teeth white- I am truly horribly upset because Marilyn and ate King Korn popcorn,” he wrote in his of glass in Joe Brainard’s collage Doctor, but they say “I LOVE YOU” and the sonnet is not dead. takes the eyes away from the gray words, Diary. The black heart beside the fifteen pieces Monroe died, so I went to a matinee B-movie washed by Joe’s throbbing hands. “Today What is in it is sixteen ripped pictures does not point to William Carlos Williams. 
XVI 
Into the closed air of the slow Warmth comes, a slow going down of the Morning Land She is warm. Into the vast closed air of the slow Going down of the Morning Land One vast under pinning trembles doom ice Spreads beneath the mud troubled ice Smother of a sword Into her quick weak heat. She Is introspection. One vast ice laden Vast seas of doom and mud spread across the lake. Quick 
heat, Of her vast ice laden self under introspective heat. White lake trembles down to green goings On, shades of a Chinese wall, itself “a signal.” It is a Chinese signal. 
XVII FOR CAROL CLIFFORD 
Each tree stands alone in stillness After many years still nothing The wind’s wish is the tree’s demand The tree stands still The wind walks up and down Scanning the long selves of the shore Her aimlessness is the pulse of the tree It beats in tiny blots Its patternless pattern of excitement Letters birds beggars books There is no such thing as a breakdown The tree the ground the wind these are Dear, be the tree your sleep awaits 
Sensual, solid, still, swaying alone in the wind 
XVIII 
Dear Marge, hello. It is 5:15 a.m. Outside my room atonal sounds of rain In my head. Dreams of Larry Walker Drum in the pre-dawn. In my skull my brain Season, cold images glitter brightly In his marriage bed: of David Bearden Answering. “Deteriorating,” you said. Say it. And made it hard to write. You know Margie, tonight, and every night, in any Aches in rhythm to that pounding morning rain. Them over and over. And now I dread Not a question, really, but you did In your letter, many questions. I read Paranoid: and of Martin Cochran, dead. 
XIX 
Harum-scarum haze on the Pollock streets Where Snow White sleeps among the silent dwarfs The fleet drifts in on an angry tidal wave Or on the vast salt deserts of America Drifts of Johann Strauss A boy first sought in Tucson Arizona The withering weathers of Melodic signs of Arabic adventure Of polytonic breezes gathering in the gathering winds Mysterious Billy Smith a fantastic trigger Of a plush palace shimmering velvet red The cherrywood romances of rainy cobblestones 
A dark trance In the trembling afternoon 
XXI 
On the green a white boy goes We may read about all those radio waves And he walks. Three ciphers and a faint fakir For the fey Saint’s parade Today No One Two Three Four Today Under a sky of burnt umber we bumble to Forget Bring the green boy white ways As so we all must in the green jungle Winds flip down the dark path of breath The mien florist’s to buy green nosegays Passage the treasure Gomangani I thought about all those radio waves Keats was a baiter of bears Who died of lust (You lie! You lie!) And the wind goes there 
XXII 
Go fly a kite he writes Who cannot escape his own blue hair who storms to the big earth and is not absent-minded & Who dumbly begs a key & who cannot pay his way Racing down the blue lugubrious rainway day brakes and night is a quick pick-me-up Rain is a wet high harried face To walk is wet hurried high safe and game Tiny bugs flit from pool to field and light on every bulb 
Whose backs hide doors down round wind-tunnels He is an umbrella. . . . Many things are current Simple night houses rain Standing pat in the breathless blue air. 
XXIII 
On the 15th day of November in the year of the motorcar Between Oologah and Pawnee A hand is writing these lines In a roomful of smoky man names burnished dull black Southwest, lost doubloons rest, no comforts drift On dream smoke down the sooted fog ravine In a terrible Ozark storm the Tundra vine Blood ran like muddy inspiration: Walks he in around anyway The slight film has gone to gray-green children And seeming wide night. Now night Is a big drink of waterbugs Then were we so fragile Honey scorched our lips On the 15th day of November in the year of the motorcar Between Oologah and Pawnee 
XXV 
Mud on the first day (night, rather I was thinking of Bernard Shaw, of sweet May Morris Do you want me to take off my dress? Some Poems! the aeroplane waiting to take you on your first getting used to using each other Cowboys! and banging on my sorrow, with books The Asiatics 
believed in tree spirits, a tall oak, swans gone in the rain, a postcard of Juan Gris not a word Fell on the floor how strange to be gone in a minute I came to you by bus to be special for us The bellboy letters a key then to hear from an old stranger The Gift: they will reside in Houston following the Grand Canyon. 
XXVI ONE SONNET FOR DICK 
This excitement to be all of night, Henry! Elvis Peering-Eye danced with Carol Clifford, high, Contrived whose leaping herb edifies Kant! I’ll bust! Smile! “Got rye in this’n?” Widow Dan sold an eye t’meander an X. Whee! Yum! Pedant tore her bed! Tune, hot! Full cat saith why foo? “Tune hot full cat?” “No! nexus neck ink! All moron (on) while “weighed in fur” pal! “Ah’m Sun!” Dayday came to get her daddy. “Daddy,” Saith I to Dick in the verge, (In the Verge!) And “gee” say I, “Easter” “fur” “few tears” “Dick!” My Carol now a Museum! “O, Ma done fart!” “Less full Cat,” she said, “One’s there!” “Now cheese, ey?” “Full cat wilted, bought ya a pup!” “So, nose excitement?” 
XXVII 
Andy Butt was drunk in the Parthenon Bar. If only the Greeks were a band- Aid, he thought. Then my woe would not flow O’er the land. He considered his honeydew Hand. “O woe, woe!” saith Andrew, “a fruit In my hand may suffice to convey me to Greece, 
But I must have envy to live! A grasshopper, George, if you please!” The bartender sees That our Andrew’s awash on the sofa Of wide melancholy. His wound he refurbishes Stealthily shifty-eyed over the runes. “Your Trolleycar, sir,” ’s said to Andy, “you bloody Well emptied the Parthenon!” “A fruitful vista This Our South,” laughs Andrew to his Pa, But his rough woe slithers o’er the Land. 
XXVIII 
to gentle, pleasant strains just homely enough to be beautiful in the dark neighborhoods of my own sad youth i fall in love. once seven thousand feet over one green schoolboy summer i dug two hundred graves, laughing, “Put away your books! Who shall speak of us when we are gone? Let them wear scarves in the once a day snow, crying in the kitchen of my heart!” O my love, I will weep a less bitter truth, till other times, making a minor repair, a breath of cool rain in those streets clinging together with slightly detached air. 
XXIX 
Now she guards her chalice in a temple of fear Calm before a storm. Yet your brooding eyes Or acquiescence soon cease to be answers. And your soft, dark hair, a means of speaking 
Becomes too much to bear. Sometimes, In a rare, unconscious moment, Alone this sudden darkness in a toybox Christine’s classic beauty, Okinawa To Laugh (Autumn gone, and Spring a long way Off ) is loving you When need exceeds means, I read the Evening World / the sports, The funnies, the vital statistics, the news: Okinawa was a John Wayne movie to me. 
XXX 
Into the closed air of the slow Now she guards her chalice in a temple of fear Each tree stands alone in stillness to gentle, pleasant strains Dear Marge, hello. It is 5:15 a.m. Andy Butt was drunk in the Parthenon Harum-scarum haze on the Pollock streets This excitement to be all of night, Henry! Ah, Bernie, to think of you alone, suffering It is such a good thing to be in love with you On the green a white boy goes He’s braver than I, brother Many things are current, and of these the least are 
not always children On the 15th day of November in the year of the motorcar 
XXXI 
And then one morning to waken perfect-faced 
To the big promise of emptiness In a terrible Ozark storm Pleasing John Greenleaf Whittier! Speckled marble bangs against his soiled green feet And each sleeping son is broke-backed and dumb In fever and sleep processional Voyages harass the graver And grope underneath the most serious labor Darius feared the boats. Meanwhile John Greenleaf Whittier was writing. Meanwhile Grandma thought wistfully of international sock fame Down the John G. Whittier Railroad Road In the morning sea mouth 
XXXII 
The blue day! In the air winds dance Now our own children are strangled down in the bubbling 
quadrangle. To thicken! He felt his head Returning past the houses he passed “Goodbye, Bernie!” “Goodbye, Carol!” “Goodbye, Marge!” Davy Crockett was nothing like Jesse James A farmer drove up on a tractor He said he was puzzled by the meaning exactly of “block.” The blue day! Where else can we go To escape from our tedious homes, and perhaps recapture 
the past? Now our own children are returning past the houses I sit at my dust-patterned desk littered with four month 
dust The air beginning to thicken In the square, on the farm, in my white block hair 
XXXIII 
Où sont les neiges des neiges? The most elegant present I could get. The older children weep among the flowers. They believe this. Their laughter feeds the need Like a juggler. Ten weeks pregnant. Who Believes this? It is your love Must feed the dancing snow, Mary Shelley “created” Frankenstein. It doesn’t matter, though. The shortage of available materials Shatters my zest with festivity, one Trembling afternoon—night—the dark trance Up rainy cobblestones bottle half empty Full throttle mired In the petty frustrations of off-white sheets 
XXXIV 
Time flies by like a great whale And I find my hand grows stale at the throttle Of my many faceted and fake appearance Who bucks and spouts by detour under the sheets Hollow portals of solid appearance Movies are poems, a holy bible, the great mother to us People go by in the fragrant day Accelerate softly my blood But blood is still blood and tall as a mountain blood Behind me green rubber grows, feet walk In wet water, and dusty heads grow wide Padré, Father, or fat old man, as you will, I am afraid to succeed, afraid to fail Tell me now, again, who I am 
XXXV 
You can make this swooped transition on your lips Go to the sea, the lake, the tree And the dog days come Your head spins when the old bull rushes Back in the airy daylight, he was not a midget And preferred to be known as a stunt-man. His stand-in was named Herman, but came rarely. Why do you begin to yawn so soon, who seemed So hard, feather-bitten back in the airy daylight Put away your hair. The black heart beside the 15 pieces 
of glass Spins when the old bull rushes. The words say I LOVE YOU Go to the sea, the lake, the tree Glistering, bristling, cozening whatever disguises 
XXXVI 
AFTER FRANK O’HARA 
It’s 8:54 a.m. in Brooklyn it’s the 28th of July and it’s probably 8:54 in Manhattan but I’m in Brooklyn I’m eating English muffins and drinking pepsi and I’m thinking of how Brooklyn is New York city too how odd I usually think of it as something all its own like Bellows Falls like Little Chute like Uijongbu 
I never thought on the Williamsburg bridge I’d come so much to Brooklyn just to see lawyers and cops who don’t even carry guns taking my wife away and bringing her back 
No and I never thought Dick would be back at Gude’s 
beard shaved off long hair cut and Carol reading his books when we were playing cribbage and watching the sun come up over the Navy Yard across the river 
I think I was thinking when I was ahead I’d be somewhere like Perry street erudite dazzling slim and badly loved contemplating my new book of poems to be printed in simple type on old brown paper feminine marvelous and tough 
XXXVII 
It is night. You are asleep. And beautiful tears Have blossomed in my eyes. Guillaume Apollinaire is dead. The big green day today is singing to itself A vast orange library of dreams, dreams Dressed in newspaper, wan as pale thighs Making vast apple strides towards “The Poems.” “The Poems” is not a dream. It is night. You Are asleep. Vast orange libraries of dreams Stir inside “The Poems.” On the dirt-covered ground Crystal tears drench the ground. Vast orange dreams Are unclenched. It is night. Songs have blossomed In the pale crystal library of tears. You Are asleep. A lovely light is singing to itself, In “The Poems,” in my eyes, in the line, “Guillaume 
Apollinaire is dead.” 
XXXVIII 
Sleep half sleep half silence and with reasons For you I starred in the movie 
Made on the site Of Benedict Arnold’s triumph, Ticonderoga, and I shall increase from this As I am a cowboy and you imaginary Ripeness begins corrupting every tree Each strong morning A man signs a shovel And so he digs It hurts and so We get our feet wet in air we love our lineage Ourselves Music, salve, pills, kleenex, lunch And the promise never to truckle A man Breaks his arm and so he sleeps he digs In sleep half silence and with reason 
Mess Occupations AFTER MICHAUX 
A few rape men or kill coons so I bat them! Daughter prefers to lay ’em on a log and tear their hair. 
Moaning Jimmy bats her! “Ill yeah!” da junky says. “I aint as fast no more, 
I’ll rent a lot in a cemetree.” He’ll recite it two times scary sunday O sea-daisy o’er a shade! Au revoir, scene! She had a great toe! She-tail’s raggy, too! Jelly bend over put ’im on too! She laid a crab! Jelly him sure later! Jelly-ass ails are tough! She lays all his jelly on him! Eeeeeeooooowww!! La Vie! Her lay races is out here, she comes on, I’m on her, I’ll fart in one ear! “Jelly, sir?” “Shall I raise him yet?” Long-toed we dance on where Shit-toe can see ten blue men lickin’ ten new partners and the sucker’s son! 
“Mating, Madame, can whip you up up! My Jimmy’s so small he wiggles plum moans! Ladies shimmy at Jimmy in waves 
XLWan as pale thighs making apple belly strides In the morning she wakes up, and she is “in love.” One red finger sports a gold finger-gripper Curled to honor La Pluie, by Max Jacob. Max Jacob, When I lie down to love you, I am one hundred times more A ghost! My dreams of love have haunted you for years More than six-pointed key olive shame. Not this day Shall my pale apple dreams know my dream “English 
muffins, broken arm” Nor my dream where the George Gordon gauge reads, “a Syntactical error, Try Again!” Gosh, I gulp to be here In my skin, writing, The Dwarf of Ticonderoga. Icy girls finger thighs bellies apples in my dream the big gunfire 
sequence For the Jay Kenneth Koch movie, Phooey! I recall My Aunt Annie and begin. 
XLI 
banging around in a cigarette she isn’t “in love” my dream a drink with Ira Hayes we discuss the code of 
the west my hands make love to my body when my arms are around you you never tell me your name and I am forced to write “belly” when I mean “love” Au revoir, scene! I waken, read, write long letters and 
wander restlessly when leaves are blowing my dream a crumpled horn in advance of the broken arm she murmurs of signs to her fingers weeps in the morning to waken so shackled with love Not me. I like to beat people up. My dream a white tree 
XLII 
She murmurs of signs to her fingers Not this day Breaks his arm and so he sleeps he digs Dressed in newspaper, wan as pale thighs beard shaved off long hair cut and Carol reading Put away your hair. The black heart beside the 15 pieces 
of glass Of my many faceted and fake appearance The most elegant present I could get! “Goodbye, Bernie!” “Goodbye, Carol!” “Goodbye, 
Marge!” Speckled marble bangs against his soiled green feet And seeming wide night. Now night Where Snow White sleeps amongst the silent dwarfs Drifts of Johann Strauss It is 5:15 a.m. Dear Marge, hello. 
XLIII 
in my paintings for they are present Dreams, aspirations of presence! And he walks Wed to wakefulness, night which is not death 
Rivers of annoyance undermine the arrangements We remove a hand . . . washed by Joe’s throbbing hands. ‘Today itself “a signal.” She is introspection. Each tree stands alone in stillness Scanning the long selves of the shore. In Joe Brainard’s collage, there is no such thing as a breakdown. Trains go by, and they are trains. He hears the feet of the men Racing to beg him to wait 
XLIV 
The withered leaves fly higher than dolls can see A watchdog barks in the night Joyful ants nest in the roof of my tree There is only off-white mescalin to be had Anne is writing poems to me and worrying about “making it” and Ron is writing poems and worrying about “making it” and Pat is worrying but not working on anything and Gude is worrying about his sex life It is 1959, and I am waiting for the mail Who cares about Tuesday (Jacques Louis David normalcy day)? Boston beat New York three to one. It could have been Carolyn. Providence is as close to Montana as Tulsa. He buckles on his gun, the one Steve left him: His stand-in was named Herman, but came rarely 
XLV 
What thwarts this fear I love to hear it creak upon this shore 
of the trackless room; the sea, night, lilacs all getting ambiguous Who dreams on the black colonnade Casually tossed off as well Are dead after all (and who falters?) Everything turns into writing I strain to gather my absurdities into a symbol Every day my bridge They basted his caption on top of the fat sheriff, “The Pig.” Some “others” were dormants: More water went under the dam. What excitement to think of her returning, over the colonnade, over the tall steppes, warm hands guiding his eyes to hers 
XLVI LINES FOR LAUREN OWEN 
Harum-scarum haze on the Pollock streets The fleet drifts in on an angry tidal wave Drifts of Johann Strauss The withering weather of Of polytonic breezes gathering in the gathering winds Of a plush palace shimmering velvet red In the trembling afternoon A dark trance The cherrywood romances of rainy cobblestones Mysterious Billy Smith a fantastic trigger Melodic signs of Arabic adventure A boy first sought in Tucson Arizona Or on the vast salt deserts of America Where Snow White sleeps among the silent dwarfs 
XLVII 
gray his head goes his feet green No lady dream around in any bad exposure “no pipe dream, sir. She would be the dragon Head, dapple green of mien. must be vacated in favor of double-clutching, and sleep, seldom, though deep. We savor its sodden dungheap flavor on our creep toward the rational. William Bonney buried his daddy and killed a many. Benito Mussolini proved a defective, but Ezra Pound came down, came down and went. And so, Carol, remember, We are each free to shed big crystal tears on The dirt-covered ground, tied together only By white clouds and some mud we can find, if we try, In the darksome orange shadows of the big blue swamp 
XLVIII 
Francis Marion nudges himself gently into the big blue sky The farm was his family farm On the real farm 
I understood “The Poems.” The dust fissure drains the gay dance Home returning on the blue winds of dust. A farmer rides a tractor. It is a block To swallow. Thus a man lives by his tooth. Meaning strides through these poems just as it strides Through me! When I traipse on my spunk, I get Wan! Traipse on my spunk and I get wan, too! 
Francis Marion Muscles down in tooth-clenched strides toward The effort regulator: His piercing pince-nez Some dim frieze in “The Poems” and these go on without me 
XLIX 
Joyful ants nest on the roof of my tree Crystal tears wed to wakefulness My dream a crumpled horn Ripeness begins in advance of the broken arm The black heart two times scary Sunday Pale thighs making apple belly strides And he walks. Beside the fifteen pieces of glass A postcard of Juan Gris Vast orange dreams wed to wakefulness Swans gone in the rain came down, came down and went Warm hands corrupting every tree Guiding his eyes to her or a shade Ripeness begins My dream a crumpled horn Fifteen pieces of glass on the roof of my tree 
LI like to beat people up absence of passion, principles, love. She murmurs What just popped into my eye was a fiend’s umbrella and if you should come and pinch me now as I go out for coffee . . . as I was saying winter of 18 lumps Days produce life locations to banish 7 up Nomads, my babies, where are you? Life’s My dream which is gunfire in my poem Orange cavities of dreams stir inside “The Poems” Whatever is going to happen is already happening Some people prefer “the interior monologue” I like to beat people up 
LI 
Summer so histrionic, marvelous dirty days is not genuine it shines forth from the faces littered with soup, cigarette butts, the heavy is a correspondent the innocence of childhood sadness graying the faces of virgins aching and everything comes before their eyes to be fucked, we fondle their snatches but they that the angels have supereminent wisdom is shown they weep and get solemn etcetera from thought for all things come to them gratuitously by their speech it flows directly and spontaneously and O I am afraid! but later they’ll be eyeing the butts of the 
studs in the street rain flushing the gutters bringing from Memphis Gus Cannon gulping, “I called myself Banjo Joe!” 
LII 
FOR RICHARD WHITE 
It is a human universe: & I is a correspondent The innocence of childhood is not genuine it shines forth from the faces The poem upon the page is as massive as Anne’s thighs Belly to hot belly we have laid 
baffling combustions are everywhere graying the faces of virgins aching to be fucked we fondle their snatches and O, I am afraid! The poem upon the page will not kneel for everything comes to it gratuitously like Gertrude Stein to Radcliffe Gus Cannon to say “I called myself Banjo Joe!” 
O wet kisses, death on earth, lovely fucking in the poem 
upon the page, you have kept up with the times, and I am glad! 
LIII 
The poem upon the page is as massive as Anne’s thighs belly to hot belly we have laid Serene beneath feverous folds, flashed cool in our white heat hungered and tasted and Gone to the movies baffling combustions are everywhere! like Gertrude Stein at Radcliffe, Patsy Padgett replete with teen-age belly! everyone’s suddenly pregnant and no one is glad! O wet kisses, the poem upon the page Can tell you about teeth you’ve never dreamed Could bite, nor be such reassurance! Babies are not Like Word Origins and cribbage boards or dreams of correspondence! Fucking is so very lovely Who can say no to it later? 
LV 
Grace to be born and live as variously as possible FRANK O’HARA 
Grace to be born and live as variously as possible White boats green banks black dust atremble Massive as Anne’s thighs upon the page I rage in a blue shirt at a brown desk in a Bright room sustained by a bellyful of pills 
“The Poems” is not a dream for all things come to them Gratuitously In quick New York we imagine the blue Charles Patsy awakens in heat and ready to squabble No Poems she demands in a blanket command belly To hot belly we have laid serenely white Only my sweating pores are true in the empty night Baffling combustions are everywhere! we hunger and taste And go to the movies then run home drenched in flame To the grace of the make-believe bed 
LVI 
banging around in a cigarette she isn’t “in love” She murmurs of signs to her fingers in my paintings for they are present The withered leaves fly higher than dolls can see What thwarts this fear I love Mud on the first day (night, rather gray his head goes his feet green Francis Marion nudges himself gently in the big blue sky Joyful ants nest on the roof of my tree I like to beat people up. Summer so histrionic, marvelous dirty days It is a human universe: & I sings like Casals in furtive dark July; Out we go to the looney movie to the make-believe bed 
LVII 
Patsy awakens in heat and ready to squabble In a bright room sustained by a bellyful of pills One’s suddenly pregnant and no one is glad! Aching to be fucked we fondle their snatches 
That the angels have supereminent wisdom is shown Days produce life locations to banish 7 Up A postcard of Juan Gris To swallow. Thus a man lives by his tooth. Buried his daddy and killed a many. Benito Mussolini The Asiatics Everything turns into writing And Gude is worrying about his sex life Each tree is introspection The most elegant present I could get 
LIX 
In Joe Brainard’s collage its white arrow does not point to William Carlos Williams. He is not in it, the hungry dead doctor. What is in it is sixteen ripped pictures Of Marilyn Monroe, her white teeth whitewashed by Joe’s throbbing hands. “Today I am truly horribly upset because Marilyn Monroe died, so I went to a matinee B-movie and ate King Korn popcorn,” he wrote in his Diary. The black heart beside the fifteen pieces of glass in Joe Brainard’s collage takes the eye away from the gray words, Doctor, but they say “I LOVE YOU” and the sonnet is not dead. 
LX 
old prophets Help me to believe New York! sacerdotal drink it take a pill 
Blocks of blooming winter. Patricia was a bed Patsy gone The best fighter in Troy Be bride and groom and priest: in pajamas Sweet girls will bring you candied apples! Drummer-boys and Choo-Choos will astound you! Areté I thus I Again I I An Organ-Grinder’s monkey does his dance. Ted Ron Dick Didactic un-melodic Roisterers here assembled shatter my zest Berrigan secretly HEKTOR GAME ETC. More books! Rilke Stevens Pound Auden 
& Frank Some kind of Bowery Santa Clauses I wonder Who am about to die the necessary lies 
LXI 
How sweet the downward sweep of your prickly thighs as you lope across the trails and bosky dells defying natural law, saying, “Go Fuck Yourselves, You Motherfuckers!” You return me to Big Bill Broonzy and Guillaume Apollinaire and when you devour your young, the natural philosophy of love, I am moved as only I am moved by the singing of the 
Stabat Mater at Sunday Mass. How succulent your flesh sometimes so tired from losing its daily battles with its dead! All this and the thought that you go to the bathroom fills me with love for you, makes me love you even more than 
the dirt in the crevices in my window and the rust on the bolt in my door in terms I contrived as a boy, such as “making it” “fuck them” and 
“I know you have something to tell me.” 
LXIV 
Is there room in the room that you room in? fucked til 7 now she’s late to work and I’m 18 so why are my hands shaking I should know better Stronger than alcohol, more great than song O let me burst, and I be lost at sea! and I fall on my knees then, womanly. to breathe an old woman slop oatmeal Why can’t I read French? I don’t know why can’t you? The taste of such delicate thoughts Never bring the dawn. 
To cover the tracks of “The Hammer.” Something there is is benzedrine in bed: 
Bring me red demented rooms, warm and delicate words 
LXV 
Dreams, aspirations of presence! Innocence gleaned, annealed! The world in its mysteries are explained, and the struggles of babies congeal. A hard core is formed. Today I thought about all those radio waves He eats of the fruits of the great Speckle bird, Pissing on the grass! I too am reading the technical journals, Rivers of annoyance undermine the arrangements Someone said “Blake-blues” and someone else “pill-head” Meaning bloodhounds. Washed by Joe’s throbbing hands 
She is introspection. It is a Chinese signal. There is no such thing as a breakdown 
LXVI 
it was summer. We were there. And THERE WAS NO MONEY you are like . . . skyscrapers veering away a B-29 plunging to Ploesti sailboat scudding thru quivering seas trembling velvet red in the shimmering afternoon 
darkness of sea The sea which is cool and green The sea which is dark, cool, and green I am closing my window. Tears silence the wind. “they’ll pick us off like sittin’ ducks” Sundown. Manifesto. Color and cognizance. Then to cleave to a cast-off emotion, (clarity! clarity!) a semblance of motion, omniscience 
LXVII 
(clarity! clarity!) a semblance of motion, omniscience. There is no such thing as a breakdown To cover the tracks of “The Hammer” (the morning sky gets blue and red and I get worried about mountains of mounting pressure and the rust on the bolt in my door Some kind of Bowery Santa Clauses I wonder down the secret streets of Roaring Gap A glass of chocolate milk, head of lettuce, dark- 
Bearden is dead. Chris is dead. Jacques Villon is dead. Patsy awakens in heat and ready to squabble I wonder if people talk about me secretly? I wonder if I’m 
fooling myself about pills? I wonder what’s in the icebox? out we go to the looney movie and the grace of the make-believe bed 
LXVIII 
I am closing my window. Tears silence the wind. and the rust on the bolt in my door Mud on the first day (night, rather littered with soup, cigarette butts, the heavy getting used to using each other my dream a drink with Ira Hayes we discuss the code of the west I think I was thinking when I was ahead To the big promise of emptiness This excitement to be all of night, Henry! Three ciphers and a faint fakir. And he walks. White lake trembles down to green goings on Of the interminably frolicsome gushing summer showers Everything turning in this light to stones Which owe their presence to our sleeping hands 
LXX AFTER ARTHUR RIMBAUD 
Sweeter than sour apples flesh to boys The brine of brackish water pierced my hulk Cleansing me of rot-gut wine and puke Sweeping away my anchor in its swell And since then I’ve been bathing in the poem Of the star-steeped milky flowing mystic sea 
Devouring great sweeps of azure green and Watching flotsam, dead men, float by me Where, dyeing all the blue, the maddened flames And stately rhythms of the sun, stronger Than alcohol, more great than song, Fermented the bright red bitterness of love I’ve seen skies split with light, and night, And surfs, currents, waterspouts; I know What evening means, and doves, and I have seen What other men sometimes have thought they’ve seen 
LXXI 
“I know what evening means, and doves, and I have seen What other men sometimes have thought they’ve seen:” (to cleave to a cast-off emotion—Clarity! Clarity!) my dream a drink with Richard Gallup we discuss the code of the west of the interminably frolicsome gushing summer showers getting used to “I am closing my window.” my dream a drink with Henry Miller too soon for the broken arm. Hands point to a dim frieze in the dark night. Wind giving presence to fragments. Shall it be male or female in the tub? Barrel-assing chevrolets grow bold. I summon to myself “The Asiatic” (and grawk go under, and grackle disappear,) Sundown. Manifesto. Color and cognizance. And to cleave to a semblance of motion. Omniscience 
LXXII A SONNET FOR DICK GALLUP /JULY 1963 
The logic of grammar is not genuine it shines forth 
From The Boats We fondle the snatches of virgins 
aching to be fucked And O, I am afraid! Our love has red in it and I become finicky as in an abstraction! 
(. . . but lately I’m always lethargic . . . the last heavy sweetness through the wine . . . )Who dwells alone 
Except at night (. . . basted the shackles the temporal music the spit) 
Southwest lost doubloons rest, no comforts drift on dream smoke(my dream the big earth) On the green a white boy goes to not Forget Released by night (which is not to imply Clarity The logic is not The Boats and O, I am not alone 
LXXIII 
Dear Ron: Keats was a baiter of bears etc. Tenseness, but strength, outward And the green flinging currents into pouring streams The “Jeunes filles” so rare Today I think about all those radio waves a slow going down of the Morning Land the great Speckle bird at last extinct (a reference to Herman Melville) at heart we are infinite, we are ethereal, we are weird! Each tree stands alone in stillness. Your head spins when the old bull rushes (Back in the city He was not a midget, and preferred to be known as a stuntman) Gosh, I gulp to be here in my skin! What thwarts this fear I love Everything turns into writing (and who falters) I LIKE TO BEAT PEOPLE UP!!! (absence of principles, passion ) love. White boats Green banks Grace to be born and live 
LXXIV 
The academy of the future is opening its doors JOHN ASHBERY 
The academy of the future is opening its doors my dream a crumpled horn Under the blue sky the big earth is floating into “The Poems.” “A fruitful vista, this, our South,” laughs Andrew to his Pa. But his rough woe slithers o’er the land. Ford Madox Ford is not a dream. The farm was the family farm. On the real farm I understood “The Poems.” 
Red-faced and romping in the wind, I, too, am reading the technical journals. The only travelled sea that I still dream of is a cold black pond, where once on a fragrant evening fraught with sadness I launched a boat frail as a butterfly 
LXXV 
Seurat and Juan Gris combine this season to outline Central Park in geometric trillion pointed bright red-brown and green-gold blocks of blooming winter. Trees stand stark-naked guarding bridal paths like Bowery Santa Clauses keeping Christmas safe each city block. Thus I, red faced and romping in the wind Whirl thru mad Manhattan dressed in books looking for today with tail-pin. I never place it right, never win. It doesn’t matter, though. The cooling wind keeps blowing 
and my poems are coming. Except at night. Then I walk out in the bleak village and look for you 
LXXVI 
I wake up back aching from soft bed Pat gone to work Ron to class (I never heard a sound) it’s my birthday. I put on birthday pants birthday shirt go to ADAM’S buy a pepsi for breakfast come home drink it take a pill I’m high. I do three Greek lessons to make up for cutting class. I read birthday book (from Joe) on Juan Gris real name José Vittoriano Gonzáles stop in the middle read all my poems gloat a little over new ballad quickly skip old sonnets imitations of Shakespeare. Back to books. I read poems by Auden Spenser Pound Stevens and Frank O’Hara. 
I hate books. 
I wonder if Jan or Helen or Babe ever think about me. I wonder if Dave Bearden still dislikes me. I wonder if people talk about me secretly. I wonder if I’m too old. I wonder if I’m fooling myself about pills. I wonder what’s in the icebox. I wonder if Ron or Pat bought any toilet paper this morning 
LXXVII “DEAR CHRIS 
it is 3:17 a.m. in New York city, yes, it is 1962, it is the year of parrot fever. In Brandenburg, and by the granite gates, the old come-all-ye’s streel into the streets. Yes, it is now, 
the season of delight. I am writing to you to say that I have gone mad. Now I am sowing the seeds which shall, when ripe, master the day, and portion out the night. Be watching for me when blood flows down the streets. Pineapples are a sign that I am coming. My darling, it is nearly time. Dress the snowman in the Easter sonnet we made for him when scissors were in style. For now, goodbye, and all my love,The Snake.” 
LXXVIII 
Too many fucking mosquitoes under the blazing sun out in the stinking alley behind my desk! too many lovely delicious behinds fertilizing the park! the logic of childhood is not genuine it shines forth so rareDear Ron: Keats was a baiter of bears who died of lust! Today I think about all those radio waves The academy of my dreams is opening its doors Seurat and Juan Gris combine this season Except at night!Then I walk out in the bleak village in my dreams, for they are present! I wake up aching from soft bed Back to books. It is 3:17 a.m. in 
New York city The Pure No Nonsense: and all day “Perceval! Perceval!” 
LXXX 
How strange to be gone in a minute Bearden is dead Gallup is dead Margie is dead 
Patsy awakens in heat and ready to squabble Dear Chris, hello. It is 5:15 a.m. I rage in a blue shirt, at a brown desk, in A bright room, sustained by the darkness outside and A cast-off emotion. A hard core is “formed” That the angels have supereminent wisdom is shown “He Shot Me” was once my favorite poem Speckled marble makes my eyes ache as I rest on The only major statement in New York city Louis Sullivan is dead whose grief I would most assuage “He Shot Me” is still my favorite poem, and “I Don’t See Any Anchor Tied To Your Ass” 
LXXXI 
Musick strides through these poems just as it strides through me! The red block Dream of Hans Hofmann keeps going away and Coming back to me. He is not “The Poems.” 
(my dream a drink with Lonnie Johnson we discuss the code of the west) 
How strange to be gone 
in a minute! too soon for the broken arm. Ripeness begins corrupting every 
tree Each strong morning in air we get our feet wet 
(my dream a crumpled horn) it hurts. Huddie Ledbetter is dead whose griefs I would most assuage Sing I must And 
with Musick I must rage Against those whose griefs I would most assuage 
(my dream “DEAR CHRIS, hello. It is 3:17 a.m. 
LXXXII 
my dream a drink with Lonnie Johnson we discuss the code 
of the west The red block dream of Hans Hofmann keeps going away and 
coming back to me my dream a crumpled horn my dream DEAR CHRIS, hello. It is 5:15 a.m. The academy of my dreams is opening its doors Ford Madox Ford is not a dream. The only travelled sea that I still dream of is a cold black pond 
where once on a fragrant evening fraught with sadness I launched a boat frail as a butterfly Southwest lost doubloons rest, no comforts drift on dream smoke 
down the sooted fog ravine My dream a drink with Richard Gallup we discuss the code of 
the west my dream a drink with Henry Miller “The Poems” is not a dream. Vast orange dreams wed to wakefulness: icy girls finger thighs 
bellies apples in my dream the big gunfire sequence for the Jay Kenneth Koch movie, Phooey! My dream a drink with Ira Hayes we discuss the code of the west 
LXXXIII 
Woman is singing the song and summer Only to others, meaning poems. Because everything Sorry about West Point. But where else was one to go, Southwest lost doubloons rest, no comforts drift on dream smoke Against whose griefs I would most assuage (A cast-off emotion) A hard core is “formed.” Musick strides through these poems just as it strides thru me my dream a drink with Lonnie Johnson we discuss the code of 
the west After Ticonderoga. Beware of Benjamin Franklin, he is 
totally lacking in grace What else. Because he tended to think of truth as “The King’s 
Birthday List” This is called “Black Nausea” by seers. My dream DEAR CHRIS hello. It is 3:17 a.m. Your name is now a household name, as is mine. And in any case, although I failed, now we need never be rivals 
LXXXIV 
Dear Ron: hello. Your name is now a household name, As is mine. We, too, suffer black spells. This is called “Black Nausea” by seers, only to others, meaning poems. In every way now we are equal. Except one. Ford Madox Ford is not a dream. (my dream a drink with Henry Miller) we discuss the code of the west. He is not “The Poems.” 
“He Shot Me” was once my favorite Cast-off emotion. Now I rage in a blue shirt at a brown desk In a bright room. In Tulsa Chris has said goodbye to Bernie. I never beat people up. The academy of my dreams is opening its doors / a fat black woman is singing a song and Summer is the subject matter. Next to her his nose couldn’t grow Even if it does choke you up, and these marvelous tears 
keep appearing 
LXXXV 
They basted his caption on top of the fat sheriff, “The Pig.” Cowboys and banging on my sorrow with books No lady dream around in any bad exposure 
The dust fissure drains the gay dance Joyful ants nest in the roof of my tree absence of passion, principles, love. She murmurs is not genuine. it shines forth from the faces And each sleeping son is broke-backed and dumb. Davy Crockett was nothing like Jesse James The most elegant present I could get! But blood is still blood and tall as a mountain blood Go to the sea, the lake, the tree dazzling slim and badly loved You are asleep. A lovely light is singing to itself 
LXXXVII 
Beware of Benjamin Franklin, he is totally lacking in grace This is called “Black Nausea” by seers. (They basted his caption on top of the fat sheriff ) 
These sonnets are a homage to King Ubu. Fasten your crimson garter around his servile heart With which he pours forth interminably The poem of these states scanning the long selves of the shore and “gift gift” Great black rat packs were running amuck amidst the murk of these states Outside my room These sonnets are a homage to myself absence of passion, principles, love The most elegant present I could get! (This is called “Black Nausea” by seers) 
LXXXVIII 
A Final Sonnet 
FOR CHRIS 
How strange to be gone in a minute! A man Signs a shovel and so he digs Everything Turns into writing a name for a day Someone is having a birthday and someone is getting married and someone is telling a joke my dream a white tree I dream of the code of the west But this rough magic I here abjure and When I have required some heavenly music which even now I do to work mine end upon their senses That this aery charm is for I’ll break My staff bury it certain fathoms in the earth And deeper than did ever plummet sound I’ll drown my book. It is 5:15 a.m. Dear Chris, hello. 
Great Stories of the Chair 
THE SECRET LIFE OF FORD MADOX FORD 
1.STOP STOP SIX 
Livid sweet undies drawl Elevate So do we squeal sporty ritual 
Once a great kiss sin tells Dance is night 
Later away training melodies dances rues Latent traveler on light Lays tense all day silky past far deportment Says your songs tombs surely rail 
You arrest my faculties, you person knees descend On her part Like rain occurs missing the whole point so he tired 
She would say her little ditty of soul yes She would say that her circuitous panties descend their 
first voyage Her rear less a dress 
This I can’t defeat This stone slays me I go and do that to her Her lap opens kisses its tune foils this hurt Dance of energy They did bounce her 
Her rule was grand it twists like a boulevard 
2.REELING MIDNIGHT 
Impasses come, dear beasts Who require these looney airs so long gone from you all O all gone to one surly, rude, humiliated 
Let’s shovel out a song and dance all knew it Let’s mosey past them fondled brutes 
Shove a dream of it up our regular day devourings I’ll fondle you on home and hang a kiss on yours Shall we raise our dead hams (Her tranquil nose is a noble dancing vine) 
Don’t hurt it 
Don’t hit it either Saying what’s so damn sweet I am on trains they’re all choo-choos Ack! The Vampire! Some debut! Lower your dress dammit! 
In this tent I’ll untrack or take down some undies 
Anguish I’ll sink thru key naps a defense To be learned one essential day 
Like seals I’m indifferent 
Eat a potato she said you sober All-American 
3.FAUNA TIME 
Liquor troops in deshabillé from blondes a lonely song Laming a lean m’sieu like a vessel 
This man hates his aunt so he licks her feet Laughing at her brilliant comas of goo 
When addict comforts real One sunk leper’s more real 
Lesions are early they fume on her In her beastly sleep Some Plague! Heavens! plagues offer Loathsome murder kill her for me Says a weak hero completely wrong his meat leaping around 
Liquor is her price when she sashays she gouged me a long 
time with fins Like in the movies One man lassoed her leg’s inner lotus Laughing at the dumb blue aches so thick in her metal disc passage Slipping her a harangue 
She really has some rashes! And her cheek hays me off! 
Gruesome rash ate such sweet arms and legs; Who gashed her liver? Leprosy ate her mouth turning into her news 
4.ON HIS OWN 
I’m not saying She’s a creep A wreck Loving you phew hooray its fini The reef ’s an injun bum Lewd Keep on O playful